I've come back to Imperial to meet up
again with dr. Carla room
having convinced me the hormone shape
our appetite he now believes that one
particular kind of surgery can
fundamentally change the levels of these
hormones surgery on the stomach what's
called a gastric bypass can you just
explain to me the mechanics of gastric
bypass surgery so let me explain it like
this
that's the esophagus or the gullet that
is the stomach that is the small bowel
and that is the large bowel so what the
surgeons do is they cut the stomach and
they cut the small bowel so you now live
with your soffit as normal you have now
a small stomach so your stomach goes
from the size of your two fists into the
size of your thumb the rest of your
stomach remains in place and the first
50 centimeters of your small bowel and
that's why it's called a stomach bypass
because we take the bottom bit of the
small bowel and connect it to the small
stomach and now it food is bypassing the
stomach and the first part of the small
bowel reducing the size of the stomach
obviously limits how much a person
but it has a more unexpected effect to
it also changes the patient's behavior
so what you're saying then is that this
particular operation actually seems to
affect someone's motivation to eat
that's that's right
so the patients come to us in clinic and
say doctor where did the surgeon do the
operation did they operate a Mike tummy
or did they operate in my head because I
don't feel hungry anymore when I do eat
I feel full and all the changes has
really happened in my head
you